Music is essential to keep us mentally and emotionally healthy. It is scientifically proven that when we play musical instruments a hormone called dopamine is released in our brain. This hormone improves creativity and helps us focus better. It also lightens up our moods. 
Though most of us would love to play musical instruments, neither may we have the flair to figure out the notes for the tunes we wish to play nor may we have the time to go to a musical class devote 3 – 4 years of time and develop the flair to figure out notes.
The task of playing a musical instrument becomes much simpler when we have the right notes with us.
This is exactly where our Carnatic Musical Note Generator is going to help you. You just have to record or upload the mp3 file of the tune into the generator and the generator will produce alphabetic Carnatic musical notes. Though there are many apps present in the market to generate sheet music, statistics proves that understanding alphabetic musical notes is simpler than understanding musical notations (western musical symbols) on the music sheet.
Audio segmentation is done for the uploaded tunes and it is split into temporal segments based on beats per minute and classifying each segment within the given class of notes specified. 
Audio processing is done to extract acoustic features of sound waves, followed by classification, and knowledge fusion. MLP and CNN both are one of the effective techniques of neural network helps us for the classification of notes. Initially the training occurs with back propagation, where the traversal occurs from backward from the output node via all the hidden layers to create a ‘Label’ specific path and for test query, we give the features like, MFCC, width, height extracted from the wave forms of the chunked audio to input nodes of Network, they assign summed up weights to the succeeding node inputs based on trained paths hence producing the notes as output. A separate text file gets automatically downloaded which contains the notes.